Well, I can assure you that my tape is going to sound
real good about the time those cows are coming up.
Did you have your tape on? Oh, I had it on, yeah. My
lord, I didn't know that. That's what's so funny,
because here come these guys. It sounds like
August in Brooklyn. When I began to call, come on,
they just come to care. They just to come. They
really do. You know, that people really don't
realize that. But animals love you if you love
them. Oh, sure they do. Hello there. She's a pretty
thing. That's a pretty thing. Yeah. Is she going to
have a calf? Or is she just... No, she has one. She
has one. Okay, I was looking at her other... Yeah, I
saw her bag and I thought maybe she was... And she's
looked awfully big in the sides. She's just big. I
told you that this old cow is going off down there.
Yeah. She's 18 years old. The other one is 20. I've
got one here that's 22. But she is a black,
without any horns, a muley. And she has a real
pretty calf. Well, there she is right there. I see
her. Yeah. Yeah, down below. Right, here he is
again. Now listen, little boy, you go on. Mama's
got to go home, and I'm going to come down and get you
and put you in the trailer and take you home, put you
in the yard. Maybe I can sell you. I believe he'll
weigh at least 850. Sure. 850 pounds. Why not? And I
sell him for $50. five cents a pound. Nobody would
believe you're standing here with an 800 pound
animal like that, hugging him and petting him.
Just loving him up. Right. I want to take him to town
with me. Now there's another old cow, right up
there. But they just look in such good condition.
They are. And they've got good calves. Look at all
these calves, how fat they are. Yeah. Now you know
that's a pretty bull. He is. That hump on his back is
incredible. Look at that hind. He's a good bull.
Pretty as he can be.
I'm
proud of him. Well I guess the reason I am so proud If
you work for things, work hard.
Oh, sweat and guts. That means a lot. I promised you
I was going to show you a big post, didn't I? You did.
From cedar. That's right. And all of this, these
posts that you see right here, have been cut from
right around here, from down there at the holler.
Oh, my gosh. Yeah, this isn't anything like the
cedars you see growing. No, you do see out there.
That's what you call cypress cedar. Now, of
course, here's some of that old lumber. The
cypress. Cypress I can see, yeah. And this, of
course, I know it's not.
Because we're going to have to put something over
this because our paddles will eventually fall in.
What is this? Well, this is a storm cellar. Now
look. Oh, I see it. It sure enough is. Built down in
the ground like that. Now just come around here.
You can't believe the size of that slug. Ooh. Look
through there. Ooh, my goodness. Now that is a
cedar log. That's the size of... Look at it. That's
the beam that goes clear across it. Well, Ava,
that's the biggest thing. That's what I'm telling
you. That's one of the biggest things that you've
ever seen. That's a good two foot deep. That's at
least 10
feet. And that log comes from right back here to
right up there. and that's the land has changed 20.
yes the land has changed and this was built here
when that old house because this is a path a tornado
path through here and i never will forget ola and i
ran into this one time we saw the tornado coming
through the field and took the roof off the barn.
That's the reason that barn looks like that. Took
the roof off and tore up the goat shed. And we ran
down and got in this hole in this thing right here.
Of course, it didn't look quite as bad as it does
now. And Olin Akron went over and he said, Avery,
you know, I'll bet you that We'd look around here.
We'd find a rattlesnake. Yeah, I was going to ask
you. And I looked up over the door and asked if they
didn't stand. But they lay out straight across
that doorway. Yeah, I was looking down in there. A
great big old chicken snake. Oh, gosh. Yeah,
that's a perfect place for a few rattlers. This
one's going to tip. This is really weather-worn
and whatnot and has all kinds of tacks in it, but I
think that I'll take it anyway. Why not?
I'd like to keep it. I think so. Yeah, this is a nice
piece of land.
Well...
All these old rusted things. That's my rake. This
is the registered primer. First one we ever had.
Number 18.
I love those. Those are so good.
And just window weights, I see window weights. You
don't see many of these iron single trees anymore.
No, you don't. Yeah, see what that is.
Heard the dove flying over there. You don't see any
beaded ceiling, see that? Yeah, I see the beaded
ceiling. I saw some of that over on the barn
somebody nailed a little up. Yeah. What is this
thing all twisted? Oh, that's part of your wire.
Yeah, that's wire that we used to use on the river.
We've got two rolls of that left. You've got a
critter that's dug its way under that, too. Oh,
yes. I'd like him not to be a skunk, okay? I don't
imagine. What do you think? Armadillo. An old
armadillo? Yeah, I bet you're right. What is this
little plant here? I used to love to pick it and
smell it. Well,
it's a mint plant, but I don't know. We'll have to
name it. It's one of my favorite smells. You can
walk through this stuff and everything begins to
take on that scent.
oh that's a pretty little calf they're all pretty
his little brown head looks like he's got let me
tell you that that'll make a good bull that one look
at straight that back here yeah proud stepper oh he
has got a good bull yeah he's a good bull look at him
well uh he's he's high off the ground oh ava he's
beautiful i'll have to get and get a hold of him.
Look at here. Suck in it. Yeah. Look at here. And
suck it. Yeah. Two of them. And think. 20 years old.
And she's still Yeah,
he's getting a meal.
Oh, that's amazing. You love to be loved, don't
you? Yeah, that's one of the pretty ones right
there. Yeah. He's going to be a good bull. That's
going to make a good bull calf. He's got a good head
on him. Mm-hmm. Good straight back. Mm-hmm. Yeah,
he really does. I've got the idea, too. He's going
to be a good bull. I can already tell. He does have
the idea.
We have to get out the window.
I wish I had a picture of that. We're going to get a
camera and get out here and do the photography.
When I come out, we'll have to come out here another
time in the fall and stay and do this.
Look at those big thunderheads. They won't amount
to anything. I don't know. But they're pretty over
there. Just late in the evening.
They're not in the right place. No.
So white and clean. He looks like he's got a little
toupee on. He sure does, that little red. Yeah,
this is parted right down the middle cone, right?
And he looks good. Well.
Uh-huh. I like the ranch.
I like this one, too. Yeah. That's a good heifer.
Mm-hmm. Yes. That pretty head, that pretty back.
She's pretty. You bet. That's a good bloodied one.
That's a good one. That's a good heifer. Yeah, she
is. Yeah, look at
that. Look how, when you see those black ones, they
shine. And that looks just like silk. It does. I
want to tell you, that's good bloodied when they do
that. Look at that neck right here on this one. It's
just like sheets of velvet. Absolutely. Can't
afford to hustle her because she's old. She's the
oldest, yeah. She's fine. But she's fat. She's in
good shape. I wouldn't have known she was 20 years
old. You just don't look at cattle and think that,
well, they are. But they are. I know how old these
are because we raised them. Sure.
They have a calf a year. Is that not right? Now, Ava,
there's a plant that I've got to figure out what it
is. What is that over there? I may have to go look at
it. Well, I haven't noticed it. I'll open the gate
and we'll see.
Write it!
So you say that's a polecat bush?
Mm. My fingers smell from that. Oh, yes, they'll
smell for a long time. OK. Oh, those are pretty.
That's pretty wood. Nice pieces of wood. Well, you
know what? I'm getting this farm. What? I'm going
to, you take them. We'll get you in the car and I'll
take them. OK.
Brass lids, curl lids, just the outside. You cut
you a piece of pasteboard, put you a piece of burlap
on it, And you take, well, you see how this goes. You
can see the grain coming here. And you cut your
piece about this long and about that wide. And you
cut it because it'll, see that grain goes clear
through and it won't take much to cut it. And you
paste it on this piece of burlap on this
pasteboard. You get you some pinto beans. Uh-huh.
And you get a big one, a middle one, and a very small
one. And because you can find the different sizes
in the beans. All right. And take your marks a lot.
And put the little eyes. and make the little nose,
and draw the little owl's body back like this, and
paste them on, and you've got three little owls.
Sitting on a piece of wood. Sitting on a piece of
wood. What a cute idea. Well, cute as it can be, my
book. And you take them. Oh, I've got two little
washboards. Uh-huh. Oh, I've had them ever
since... Well, the first one I bought when I went to
school in St. Marcus. Mm-hmm. 1948. The other one I
bought in 19... 60 when I was in San Antonio.
Because I'd take one, kept one at home and one down
there just to rub my clothes out on so that I didn't
have to start the washing machine, save
electricity, do it the hard way for old cocks. But
that was me. That's what it is. And you'd take those
little washboards. Yeah. And at the bottom part
where the two little legs come down, you fill that
in and let it extend out and put a lid on it and fold it
back up. Put your lid on your little box and has the
things on it. And up here at the top, put you two
hooks that you can hook it up with and
put the, put it up on your outside porch put your
comb in there put your brush in there and say have a
scrub you'll look better oh how cute yeah just make
that little box yeah then on the back then i had
another idea of making a complete box on the back
and using the washboard as the door, and put the
latch there, and the little medicine shelf, and
put it, and put that up for, you know, just for
somebody to, well, I don't know. Well, that's what
folk art is, Ava, thinking of things that are
creative. Yeah, that's a darling idea. I don't
know just how well I can get it done, but I thought I
would. Well, I know you. I've seen the things
you've done. I thought I'd do it, and I've got this
wood, and I'm going to try that. Is this where you
saw the eagles that time? Yeah, sure is, right
here. I kept saying, see the eagle? He's catching
something. He's taking it all from there. Yep,
right here's where we saw the eagles. All right, I
told you there'd be more buses. Look at them down on
the bottom. You're right. There's now how many on
one now? There's 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. Is
that right? Yeah, but I bet you there's 12. I told
you they'd be 12. I think you're right. I see one in
the middle. You've been counting these buzzards
when you come out here. I sure have. Yeah, they're
12 of them. I don't know. That's perfectly silly.
What difference does it make whether it's five or
six? They're on the pole. They're on the, yeah.
They're 12. They're out there, but I said, well,
they're 12.
Well, that one's still by itself. I guess they're
on the nest. The other three are still, they still
may be out for the prowl. One, two, three. No,
there's two down there on that other one. Yeah.
Three, and three are six, and three's nine, by
golly, since there's 11, 12. I see them down yonder
on the other. They'll all be up there in a little
bit.
Yeah.
There he is again. Now she's... She's taking us
down the road. Yeah. She's leaving us away from her
baby. Yeah, she's staying in the middle of the
road, isn't she? She's looking back. Follow me.
Oh, here, look who's coming. Here comes Pop. Now
that's the male, isn't it? Yeah, this is the male
right here. Oh, they're both She's not going to
leave. Those babies are right there. She went on
down the road. Yeah, she's leading us off. Yeah.
Now she's cutting back. She's gone now. Wherever
she went. Right there she went. Right around this
thing. Right here. Okay. She's already turned
around and come back to hunt her babies. That's
something. Well, I'll tell you right now, you'll
just learn a lot about nature just by riding around
and looking at things. And you understand
if they knew a little more about nature. I know they
would. There is such a gap between the parent and
child. It's not done in the animal world. It's just
a shame it's happening within the human
existence. I cannot conceive it. I guess that's
why I never had any children, because the
stability was such that I saw it couldn't be done,
really. Look at the big old jackrabbit again.
Isn't he pretty? Yeah. You know, a male rabbit
never squats like that. You know, I, good. I never,
I wanted to know what made some of them kind of run
with that squatted look to them and some that
there's a cubby of quail. Oh yeah, I think I've seen
it last. Nope, that was a female. Okay, so she kind
of runs with her body low like that. Yes. I don't
remember that. I've seen it, but I just didn't know
what it was. Jack runs high and his head high. And a
female low and she'll keep her ears down. They were
forward when she was running. That's right. I
learned my lesson about jackrabbits today. A lot
of lessons. Oh, well. I'm going to enjoy listening
to this tape when the camera came in. That's right.
I didn't know you had the thing on. Yeah, I've had it
on ever since we left. Well, ever since we started
into the ranch, I wanted to get a full tape of the
ranch. We're covering a lot of territory today.
Well, we sure have. I don't know how good he is.
Well, I feel that if I can spend the last month of
September just doing this, you know? Yeah. Then I
got an A. I've got a lot of, I've got a lot of
research. Look at here. Oh, what a pretty rabbit.
What's he doing? He's... Is that a male? Sure it is.
Yeah. Don't you see those? The ears are the way they
are. I thought I was going to say it was a male.
That's a male rabbit. I'm seeing the difference.
big things they're almost as big as the deal they
sure are you know during during the early 20s uh 19
oh well i said the early 20s i guess is they 18 19 18 19
19. uh they paid a bounty on long-eared jack
rackets What were they doing, running over the
land? They were eating everything that was dry and
just eating up the grass. Oh, just destructive. I
can remember cutting them off, and some of them
wouldn't be as long as we bought them. We'd stretch
them. Oh? Oh, I mean to tell you, listen, there
wasn't anything we didn't try to do to make a dime to
have something to eat. And I guarantee you that.
And I've eaten enough. Jackrabbits,
cottontails, white gravy, cornbread. We didn't
have biscuits in the office. Great what you had,
right? And man alive, I've eaten it and just, I just
fill up on it. And you know, I think that Kreiser
gravy was, oh, it was good. My goodness, my mother
could make that stuff. And it was really good. Of
course, they'll call it cream gravy now. But what
did you call it? Crider gravy. Crider gravy. How
did you get that? I've never... What I got is that's
where it originated. In this part of the world.
Mm-hmm. It's Crider. Old Grandma Crider. I like
Dan's mother. I saw a pretty dragonfly. It was red.
Did you see? No. It had red wings. An orangey-red
one. Well, I haven't seen an orangey-red one.
That's what it was. Okay, I'll catch another gate.
I'm going to put mine there while you hold yours
with it.
There
we go. What'd you lose? I probably broke my
cigarette. No, you left those at home. Well,
that's good. You just mean she get another one when
you get... Well, I just... This week's the first
time in over a month that I... You get to do what you
want. When I... You're being a bad girl. Besides, I
smoke the cigarette, and it's not that I want it.
It's just... Oh, it is, I guess, too. Uh-huh.
I don't like to come home this time of day. It's bad
on me. Oh, yeah, you're right. Well, if you want me
to drive, let me know, and I will. Just say so, and
I'll be glad to. All right. Because it's awful
bright. This is good. I'll make it. Look at the
spider webs all over the grass. Yes, ma'am. And it
won't rain this week. They're everywhere.
They're everywhere. Yes, ma'am.
I don't think it's going to rain this week. I don't
think it will. Unless they pull up stakes and call
in webs. Yeah, because they sure are thick. They
are. They are everywhere. Now that is, Ava, I've
grown up seeing this. And some days they'll be
there and some days they won't. And I will reckon to
say that, sure enough, I understand that. Well, we
don't seem to attribute. We attribute everything
to the migration of birds, but we never attribute
anything to spiders, spider webs, cattle, corn
cobs, you know, and everything. We seem to only
attribute birds with a sense of
their migration. It's a shame. Because all things
are in tune to nature's way.
I've come along here many a time. Right here is
where we used to turn in to go to our place, right
here. That's a beautiful drive down that way to the
ranch. It's rough, but it's sure pretty. So that's
still your land? No, this isn't. That's
Wendless's, but ours joins just right down there,
not far. And he just has a small neck right here.
Well, now, if I came up this road from the other
way... Shoot, I intend to take you back and show you
that. Oh, okay. Well, would that be better than
driving with the sun in your eyes, probably? Well,
we'll just go up here and turn around, and I'll take
you down. All right. He's a sassy old mockingbird,
right? Is that what you're looking at? I'm going to
go up here and turn around. Okay, yeah, here's a
good place.
Well, I've seen the Hill Country at some pretty
times this year. The blue bonnets were
incredible. I've never seen anything quite as
beautiful. When I was up, we went out and looked at
that ocean of blue.
I don't want to get hit either way. Next spring, I do
plan to come and to collect herbs. So we'll start
the season right, okay? Okay. I told Brother Lynch
about you, so I'm sure that we can talk him into
coming up with us. He would get a kick out of that.
Really
would. Think he'd get a kick out of seeing a little
bull in the front yard? Aw, he would. You know, he's
one of the oldest teaching brothers at St.
Edward's University. Oh, really? Yeah, he is.
He's a very good man. I get along with him very, very
well. He started teaching there in 1952. And his
entire life thesis has been about the plants. of
this particular region in Texas. So he finally
finished his book, and it's very well
illustrated, and I want a copy for myself, and I
want to... Well, we'll try and... Have to get you a
copy. Well, someday. Oh, well... Just as time goes
on. If I write a good article, I'll get it. I've got
to get my feet on the ground. financially before I
can do much of anything right now. Well, you work on
that. I've got to figure out where the ground is
before I even start putting my feet down. That's my
problem. I'll tell you right now. I'm not kidding
you one. Oh. That big, big, fat thing. I'm going to
get out there and move the whole thing up just that
little bit. Yeah. They build girls big up here,
ain't they? Oh.
Well, I enjoy meeting kids out here
in the fields a while ago. 1,800 pounds, that one.
Oh, my Lord, yes. And I was petting an 1,800. Whoa.
Yeah, that does amaze
people. Well, someday I'm going to get me a good...
picture of him. That may be soon. I've had enough
photography friends and we'll get out of here with
the old click click and get some good stuff. Where
he's laying down and you're rubbing his head. Uh
huh. Uh huh. Really? It'd be really worth it. Mmm.
We've been to Hippie Holler. See those vans?
They've been across the river. Now you see what
we've missed? Oh, what? We missed Hippie Holler?
No, we've been across the river to meet Willie. Oh
yeah, we missed Willie today. Hey, but look at that
pear tree. It's just as ripe as it can be. I've got a
bunch of pear up the house. All you do? Go get all you
want. Did your apples turn out good? Pretty good. I
have a good menu. In the co-op in Austin, I'm a
member of the food co-op. Yeah. They're having
Texas Holland apples. They're the best things
I've ever eaten. They really are. They're tart.
They almost tasted like a pear. They really did.
But I wondered if they were grown up here. Oh, we
have lots of apples grown in this part of the
country. Yeah, I knew Morrison was into that, but I
just wasn't sure. Yeah, we have lots of them in
Gillespie County. Blanco County is just now
starting them. Well, we've had them for a couple of
years. We have the yellow delicious and the red
delicious. Yeah, I've seen that. Boy, and they're
good. Yeah, I ate a red delicious Texas apple,
organically grown here, so I assumed it was from up
this way.
So that's what I would like to do. If there was a way
to have a piece of land right now, I would go out and
put a cabin on it and plant some peach trees, fruit
trees, and plan to retire on it eventually and
write books. How does that sound? That sounds
good. There is enough to write. You don't have to go
very far up here. You can spend your days writing
poetry just by sitting on your front porch, right?
Isn't that right? You really can. Yeah, we did miss
Willie's party. It seems like everybody's
leaving. Mama.
Because people like that can't be coming from just
anywhere. Oh, no. And, you know, you can tell his
eye before you see him. Right.
You know something, Ava, that amazes me. Here you
have cowboys in Texas, right? That's right. The
kids have adopted this cowboy, you know, cosmic
cowboy, I think is what we can call it. But I never,
in my life, have I seen a true cowboy walk into a
place and he doesn't take his hat off. Right? I've
never yet seen one. So you can always tell when one
is the gentleman when they walk in and they wear
their hat. Honey, it don't make any difference.
You can tell a thoroughbred from the doggie from
the time you see it. You're right. I know. And we've
got a heck of a bunch of doggies running around.
Anytime you see a cowboy, that they pretend to be a
cowboy, and they've got that hat dipped down in
front, and they've got it dipped down in the back,
and a bunch of damn feathers in it, you just say, no,
that's not my time. He couldn't ride a broomstick.
That's right. Yeah, those are the cosmic kind,
right? I cannot understand why they want to ruin a
good hat like that. Yeah, yeah. Dipping it down in
front, dipping it down in the back. Curling the
sides. Barely curl up the sides. Which place was a
nice little bar? Well, this is down here at Colonel
Hagnell's. Colonel Hagnell's? Hagnell's. Okay.
He's a... used to be an exceptionally good friend
of Olin's. I haven't seen him since Olin died.
Well, I just don't... I think his wife is dead. In
fact, I never did see her. I don't know if he had a
wife or not. But this is his place. But Olin came and
visited him quite often. But I never did. Well, I
was always teaching at school. I was always done.
Is he older than Olin or around his age? He was about
Olin's age. I see. And a colonel. He's a typical
Army man. Oh, really? I've been at two, three
parties where he was, but I've never... Uh-huh. I
have a nice place over here. Yes, he does. He really
does. Very well kept. In regimental tradition, I
might say. Right? Cadillac in the garage. I saw
him. Oh, he has... He lives well. Undoubtedly, he
has all... The things that life desires, I guess.
Career man, obviously. Huh? Career army officer.
Yes, yes. Mm-hmm. And then if he's in his 80s, he
must be very interesting. I don't know. He may not
have been quite as old as Owen, but I believe he was.
Still, 70s, 80s. Yeah, he was. He's seen his share
of American history. I'm telling you right now
that...
He's a pretty good stepper. Oh, is he? Okay. So I
don't know. Well, why not? Well, I don't blame him.
Why not? Why not? That's right. And just because I
can't do it, that doesn't mean I feel a fallout with
anybody that does. You're going to have to watch
yourself go on another cruise.
You know... that was a lost cause uh was it yeah
that's just the gate too i went to that i came out
there one time walking from the ranch down here to
this place now i want to tell you something before
we get there okay this is hammett's crossing
hammett's cross hammett's crossing on the river
This is Hammett's Crossing on the river. Yeah. And
this is the only place that you could cross this
river from up there at Johnson City down to here
with a wagon or a team to go anywhere. At Hammett's
Crossing. At Hammett's Crossing right down here.
By West Cave. West Cave, right. That's right. This
was the only toll bridge that was ever put up on the
Perdomales River. An old man hammock put it up
himself, and that's the way he paid for it. And you
can see, and now this has been built. This road has
been leveled down. By the way, this was just a
straight out bluff. They blasted this and put it
down to where you could get out. But this has always
been the first time I ever came over it. I thought we
were going to fall off in the river. I really did. I
really did. Because of the fact there was no let
down to it. It was just a straight up and down bluff.
So he built a bridge across the bluff. And he built
the bridge across. And this is what we always
called Hippie Hall. Right up this thing. Right up
here. By West Cave. Yeah, they've got it fenced all
the way down. Ava, that river's the finest looking
thing. Now, here's where we'd have to come across.
You see what I mean? Yeah, I see what you mean. And
you'd put on all the brakes that you had on your
wagon, and then you thought, well, you just
couldn't make it. Now, of course, the highway has
built this top point, but it was always built out
of, well, yonder's part of it, right over yonder.
And these rocks, see right here? And they were all
taken out. Sure. And that was done. Well, there's
some steel of it right there. Yeah. And you see how
they circled that around? This was steel that was
built. that he had put in there, and rocks and
things. And look over yonder. Isn't that
beautiful water? That is the prettiest,
prettiest view of this part of the river. Now,
we're already in Travis County now. Oh, sure, yes.
Way over in Travis County. Now, we're going up the
river. You see, this is what the... Yeah, I see the
nude swimmers. Damn. See them all down the river
down there. I sure do. Having a good time. Shoot.
You know what happened to them at my place? Oh, no.
Well, I can imagine if Corky got them. No, I was the
one that found them, and they had our boat, and they
were used out on the sandbar, and I was down there
with my 410 foot cows across on the other side that
belonged to Hulbert, and I hit them with these
birdshot 410, and I tell you right now, I come
around that and I saw those naked, old naked girls
and boys out there, and I'd hit the fan, and they'd
throw it up on them, just eating the devil out of
them. And I want you to know they went off without
their clothes or anything. They got going, but in a
hurry. I can see you doing that. Yes. I said, next
time you come around here, you'll know that old...
What did I call myself? Don't use that word. Oh,
aye, old dirty Sally is right here with her
shotgun. She'll get you every damn time you come
around here naked. Oh, I was mad. That's
wonderful. I can see the whole scene. That's just
like you saw right down there, but they were out on
the beach, out on that sandbar, and I just passed
through thunder out there. Okay.
now you see we came right down this road all the way
yeah from the gate from the gate yeah and i'll show
you where we run into the oh it's okay now what do we
have here camping and is this oh hamilton's
hamilton's pool down here no i've never really
been to hamilton's well that's what it is you go in
around over here and shoot i never wanted to swim
there too maybe we could go Well, to me it was too
dangerous to swim there. It's a very dangerous
place to dive in. It's not bad to swim in, but to dive
in, yeah, too many people. You'll lose one a year.
This weekend will be the weekend. Never fail. But
that's where it is. That's Hamilton Pool. Okay,
now if I met you at the ranch, I would just hit 71,
take the road to Hamilton's Pool, and then come on
across the crossing and up to the ranch. That's
very easy. Very simple. We'll do that sometime.
Here we go with those post seaters again. Now
that's a tree. That's Right here's where a man
drowned. Ran off that thing and drowned, yeah.
About two foot of water. And here's where you go in
the Hamilton Pool, right here. Yeah, okay. You
know how to get out here to Hamilton Pool? Yeah, I
know how to find it from 71. Well, there's no use in
us to go. No, we can go back. We can turn around and go
back. Because this is always 71. We're almost to
Oak Hill. Yeah, and we can turn around. So we can go
back. Okay. You know that. This is old Myer's
place. Oh, really? This is where old Marvin
Krueger lived with that woman for so long. She had
that barge called Little Marvin. Oh. Oh, yeah.
This is where they lived. I see. I think she wound up
in the hospital. Insane asylum. Oh, well. This car
is not there now. We can make a turn around here.
That's what we're going to do right now. Quills for
sale, Laura Myers. I bet they're high. We ought to
go in and try something. Yeah. Handmade dominoes
for sale. Capitalizing on Hamilton bull crap.
Mm-hmm. Edith Meyer, Dripping Springs.
You know, Ava, I think I mentioned that there is a
woman who lived out here, an old woman whose father
was a physician. And she lives in the dog trot to
this day.
Her father built a very old one. As I said, he was a
physician and he was in the Civil War. And
apparently she's supposed to be very vivid in her
stories and her quilting. But I'm going to have to
check with the quilting club in Austin and catch
her name again and see if we all know. I bet you do.
I'm right, but I don't know. Yeah, we'll find out.
Anyway, I want you to get over and talk to Mary this
week. Have I used up all your tapes? No, I've got
some more. Yeah, okay. Because we're doing a good
deal on tapes today. No, I've got some more. Okay.
Now, the sun's about to drop down, so we'll have not
too bad a drive back. No, it won't be too bad now. But
I wanted to be sure that you knew how to get out to
Hammonds Pool. I do. That's good. Hamilton Pool
and Hamilton Pool is just no way up to the ranch.
It's perfect. And any time you want to come up
there, well, then I can meet you down there. Oh,
that's an easy way to go. Yeah. Because this is just
barely 25 miles, right? That's right. Sure. Yeah.
That's good. Take a picture of Little Bull. Right,
definitely. You know it to me. You know their
voices. Those old bellers just sound good to me.
I'm going to play this tape back, and we're going to
listen to that later. Your doctor boyfriend said,
my God, what kind of woman is that? I intend to let
him hear that part of the tape first. I've decided
that when I get back... That's what I'm going to do.
I'll just tell him to. I'll set it up and say, why
don't you turn that tape on and see what's on that
tape? We'll have a little bull. Right? The sun
through that theater is a fine lacy looking thing,
isn't it? It is pretty. Then you can't tell me that
you don't blow the hill country. Oh, I love the hill
country. That's a Boy Scout camp. I see. It's a big
one. Scout ranch. That's a nice one. Yes, it is.
It's like a group of Boy Scouts are having a big
weekend.
Ava, what's this little plant with that delicate
flower here? What are these? Oh, that's bee weeds.
Bee brush. Bee brush. That's bee brush. Yeah. They
smell sweet, don't they? They sure do. Make the
best honey in the world. Ah. That's bee brush. Bee
brush. Got it. Yes, ma'am. Isn't this pretty?
Yeah, a mixture of red oak, cedar. There is a sumac
and several other trees in here. This is a
pretty... That's wild plum right there. Yeah,
that's some wild plum. My gosh. Yeah, a lot of
foliage you don't usually see except close to the
river. Now right there is catfish. See that little
house back there? Catfish Cattle. Old Dr.
Cattle's fishing camp. Oh, is it? Mm-hmm. All
right, now there's possum grapes. Yeah, I was
going to ask you, that's a grape. That's called
possum grape. Yeah, that's called possum grape.
Okay, I see that when I run. There was an
apple-looking thing back there. What was that? I
don't know. I didn't see, but that was possum
grape. I was looking to see. That's a Mustang.
Mustang, yeah. You can see them there. But I
recognize the possum grapes. And you know what
that is? No, that spiderweb-looking thing. What
is that? Yeah, that's Old Man of the Mountain. Old
Man of the Mountain. Yeah. Okay. The old man of the
mountain. Yeah, a fuzzy, fuzzy plant. Mm-hmm. You
know, I tell you,
they may not, all of the names that I give you may not
be. They're regional names in a lot of cases. Yeah,
mm-hmm. But that's significant because. I wonder
if they're going to get out of the way or if I can,
there's no way I can get by. Mm-mm. Ever
see the cartoon character Miss Piggy?
Oh, my goodness, people. Move, move.
Oh,
I'm telling you. I got down the bottom of that
wagon, hid my head, and squalled. Nobody will ever
know. I'll tell you for sure. This was a scary
crossing. Now, when you crossed here, where were
you headed? To Austin? Sure. Uh-huh. That's what I
thought. This would be it. Whoa.
Oh, Lord. Yeah, I can see coming down off of this.
This is the worst place that you've ever hoped to
see in your life, coming down this thing. Yeah, in a
wagon. In a wagon. How'd your team take it? Well,
they took it, but it wasn't. Uh-huh. Son of a gun.
Can't make it this far. I hope I can get by him.
because I don't like the looks of them. This is
pretty country. I walked all the way down our
river. Oh, you did? Down to here. Right down that
river. I wanted to see what it was like and where the
fishing was good and where it wasn't. We had the
best fishing of any of it, so I didn't ever bother
myself to come back. Right. Well, that's right.
What do you usually catch? What's a fish for? Just
blue cat. Well, I caught a good many. I have caught a
good many white bass down here in the early spring.
There used to be, you see this road right here? Used
to be to go right straight to the ranch, but we've
got some people who moved in here from San Antonio.
They bought little five acre blocks of land and
they locked the gates so you can't get in that way.
And we keep our gates open so people can go back and
forth. Oh, sure, sure. That was the tradition.
That's changing. Oh, yes, that's changing. The
oncoming of real estate. Yeah. People, you know,
get five acres, they say, stay out, this is my
property. Shit. If they had anything worth it,
you'd think it'd be different. Yes. Yeah, the real
estate market has taken a cut into the ranch land up
here. Well... This old man from Houston, he said,
oh, you just have a mint there. If you just cut that
up on top of that bluff right down to that river, you
have everybody access to the river and all this
kind of stuff. Well, I said, I enjoy that river. I
need to ice mine just as much as it could be. I mean,
just as much to me as it does to you, brother. I hope
that your family keeps that land. I hope they do,
too. Again, I don't know what'll happen, but I
just, the thought of you giving it up. No, no, I'm
not going to do that. Have you ever been with me down
to Mama's Place? No, that was another place we need
to go. I'd like to go to Mama's Place and your Mama's
Place and do another tape and let you tell me more
about that, too. It's a nice piece of land. That's
where Grandpa Chapman lived. That was. And he was
happy there. You bet I was happy there. I grew up, my
grandmother and grandpa were just as sweet as they
could be. And I grant you that I was spoiled, but I
was made to mind. And I'd hear Grandpa get up in the
morning. First thing he'd do is build a fire in the
cookstove for Granny to cook breakfast. But he
would make him a hot potty. Oh, he would. The first
thing. And I'd hear him in there doing it. And I'd
jump out of that bed, and I'd trip in that potty. And
he'd fix me a hot toddy. Of course, it wasn't much,
but he'd fix it for me. And I'd sit there and drink it
and smack my lips just like he did. Say, ooh-wee,
that's good, Popo. Ooh-wee, Popo, that's good. I
called him Popo. And I don't know. Now, those to me
are really happy memories. Oh, of course. And then
Granny would get up. I'd finally get my clothes on.
Grandpa would help me tie my shoes and things. I'd
get my clothes on. She'd come in and always had hot
biscuits. And let me tell you, Cynthia, just as
regularly she made hot biscuits, she'd let me have
a little one. piece of dough to cook on top of the
stove. Oh, Ava, my mom used to let me make little jar
lids. Yes, sir. I'd get a jar lid and make myself
little tiny biscuits. I'm telling you, that was
the happiest time that ever was, and the little
things that you wanted to do. Oh, how nice. Yes, it
was nice. That indulgence was so fine. Yeah. And
then she'd ask me, and I'd say, I want some ham. We'd
go to the smokehouse, and we'd cut a big chunk of ham
out. And she'd make red-eye gravy, and I'd eat
red-eye gravy and ham. And she'd ask for one egg. I
said, no, I didn't want any egg, just red-eye gravy
and ham. And I'd eat red-eye gravy and ham. And I
really enjoyed it. Mm-hmm.
I haven't had any good ham, though, in a long time.
This old ham that you buy has got so much embalming
fluid that it don't even taste like ham. I know it.
Most of the boons do. That's a shame, too. You know,
in the co-op that I'm a member of, there's a ranch
called Yaega Farms that's not putting any
preservatives in their beef. They're raising
their stock at some of their land passes, and
they're doing everything without feed that has
anything in it. Yeah. Everything is being done the
hard way. You know, not the fast, easy way, but the
hard way. That's what it amounts to. Well, that's
what it really is. When I was in Arkansas, I stopped
to buy some animals, $8 a pound. Whoa. That's
coastal Bermuda that they've got planted out
there. Yeah, I thought that was. This is Ranch Road
962. Yeah. Now, those are elms, aren't they? Those
are just plain old black, just plain old black
elms. No, the trees. Oh, yeah, those are elms out
there. They're big elms, too. Like I grew up in my
front yard. Yep. Pretty.
Uh-oh. Look at the geese. Aren't they pretty?
Yeah. That's geese. Yeah. Who? Mr. and Ms. Knazey.
Mm-hmm. I've just got to back up and say hello to
them. Oh, we should.
Go on. When we lived at Stonewall, and even after we
moved to Johnson City in 1912, we had only looked
forward to every month there would be a Jew peddler
that would come through the country peddling his
wares. Now, there were times, maybe this time, he
would bring hardware, and the next time it would
be... merchandise and the next time it would be
groceries. But we would buy our groceries in large
quantities. I don't understand and I really can't
figure it out. I know that we would buy our flour in
barrels of 100 pounds. And it would last from one
time until the next when the peddler would come
around. Why, you can't buy a five-pound bag now
that the weevils won't eat it up. I know. I remember
my mother put bay leaves in it. In the flower? In my
flower, in her flower. But we never had a weevil,
and we didn't eat it up that fast either because we
only had... flour bread for breakfast, and the
rest of the time is cornbread. And I know that. But
anyway, our little Jew peddler would come by, and
he would take anything in this world we had for
trade. But he would always make it to our house to
spend the night, because my mother was a very good
cook. And he enjoyed eating with us. Now, it didn't
make any difference about exactly what we had to
eat. He was a gracious person and he was very
grateful. I remember one morning my mother said,
well I'm awfully sorry but we have no meat for
breakfast and we have crud or gravy. He said, I've
never heard of that. And we had biscuits and gravy
and scrambled eggs. And I'm telling you that Jew
peddler says, well, I never have eaten Crider
gravy, but I'll tell you one thing, Mrs. Johnson, I
believe I could do a day's work on just the bread and
gravy. And I know that I've eaten enough cried to
gravy to flow the battleship, but it's still good
to me. But anyway, that day, he had a stove, and we
had the same stove up in the boyhood home, and it he
would demonstrate he had a little tiny model on the
back end of his hack and he would demonstrate how
the smoke would come out only through the pipe and
it wouldn't smoke around you know so many of our
stoves would smoke in those days you couldn't buy
this stole anywhere else only through a jew
peddler and he would he would take however much you
had to pay now if you could pay as much as fifty
dollars down on it uh He would give you a polon,
which was something special, a gift of some kind.
And he gave my mother a tea kettle that sat down
right next to the fire, just like they have in the
boyhood home. Now, I don't remember Aunt Rebecca
ever owning one like that. but my mother owned one
just exactly like it. And it would sit down right
next to the eye where it would get hot much quicker,
and it would be flat.